Dear JH:

Consider a human social network. It has strange properties. Fat tails in indegrees and outdegrees, clustering coefficients, synchronizability, percolation possibility and huge component.

The reason why it has such properties is because of the underlying generative process that creates them. There are many possibilities, but the essential thing about them is positive feedback, from BA to SKG to RTG to Chung Lu.

Actually, this is very close to a well-disseminated idea by NN Taleb and BB Mandelbrot, which is that of the Black Swan. This is because of the distributional structure of the world which he advocates. The human social network is actually of a black swan nature. SKG is actually a fractal.

One way to attack human social networks is by percolation graph matching. This was invented by Narayanan as far as I can tell to de-anonymize social networks. It is a special case of graph matching.

The reason why it's interesting is that it is fast in comparison to less easy graph matching, although you can do other graph matching methods. Moreover, we just showed that the graph is easy to percolate on.

Tutorial on percolation graph matching.

The Black Swan can be attacked by percolation graph matching and the creation of an ansatz.

Evidence. ==> THIS IS HARDEST BIT

Some speculations on what you can do with other possible signals. Ubiquity of power law sort of things in other domains, although you must be very careful. Spectral properties of financial and turbulent liquid signals, software networks, biological networks, economic networks are also of interest.
